# LING571-FinalProject

ABSTRACT

Code-switching is a linguistic phenomenon in which bilingual speakers alternate two or more languages or varieties of languages in the same conversational event. It’s most commonly observed in highly bilingual communities. Besides in-person conversation, code-switching has also integrated into our everyday lives across platforms such as podcasts, movies, songs, television, radio, tweets, and even virtual assistant technology.

Code-switching in ‘Spanglish’ is a common occurrence among the Hispanic and Latino communities, since a majority of English-speaking Hispanics in the United States are bilingual (Pew Research Center, 2015). Despite its wide use, though, code-switching has received little attention in the fields of Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing. More specifically, a POS tagger for multilingual text currently does not exist, further limiting research in these areas. Notably, Hispanics and Latinos are the country’s second largest racial or ethnic group and represent an important part of the nation’s overall demographic, making up approximately 18% of the total population (U.S. Census Bureau, 2019). Therefore, it’s in our best interest to understand the language(s) spoken by these groups to close communication gaps and improve technologies that try to deliver services to these multilingual users.

This purpose of this project is to build a corpus for English and Spanish code-switched discourse from a bilingual podcast titled “Do you Spanglish?” The general idea is that a very large corpus of this type of data will yield insightful discoveries about this phenomenon and will perhaps provide a better understanding of code-switching occurances and the circumstances where they are likely to appear. Code-switched utterances are identified by using the monolingual POS tagger 'TreeTagger' for English and Spanish (see POS tagger results). Basic corpus analysis is conducted using the Antconc toolkit (see Antconc visuals). Text normalization is carried out in Python with Google Colab Notebook and the Natural Language Toolkit (see preprocessing.ipynb).

For the full report, please contact Joseline Ayala at jayala2145@sdsu.edu
